Who the other general officers were, he took to
Africa with him, but I know that Delmar Dutton was
my immediate commanding general. Now, were you in
at all on the planning of the invasion of North
Africa, Operation Torch? I was in on the planning
for the supply maintenance. Part of it. Part of it.
In fact, I did all the thickness shovel work on
that. I had an awful time. The telephone system in
England was horrible. It was so bad that I
appointed my brightest, best lieutenant to do
nothing but get me telephone numbers. I called in
all over England trying to get a hold of these
people and tell them what to do.
I couldn't spend all my time trying to get a number,
trying to get a line through. It was horrible. So as
far as supply and maintenance, was that the
biggest problem, or were there other large
problems? That was the only problem I had, and I was
the man that had to put it on. I
had some pretty good help. Did you get enough
supplies? Yeah, we got everybody fixed up. We
didn't actually have enough transportation. We
were always short of transportation, Jeeps and
trucks. Down in Africa, we were still short.
Sicily was short. What about aircraft? Did you
have enough aircraft? I wasn't worried about the
aircraft because that wasn't part of my business.
They had lost quite a number of C-47s in the landing
in Algiers.
They went on there with paratroopers and knights,
you know, and they landed all over the place. Lost
quite a number of aircraft, but that wasn't my,
that wasn't my, my job was parts, supply parts,
gasoline. and
maintenance crews, depot crews,
and so forth. Did you get enough gasoline to them?
Get enough what? Gasoline. Yeah, it came in a 55
gallon drum, and some of it came in a 5 gallon jerry
can, as they called them. I had a Gasoline dumps
several different places around North Africa.
The enemy had come over and dropped a few
incendiary bombs while they could burn up a lot of
gasoline, but they didn't do it.
They didn't know where they were located? I don't
know why they, I never could figure out why they did
this and that. When did you land in North Africa? Me
personally? I think it was 18th of November. I
think the invasion was the 11th of November. So you
came about a week later. Yeah. I went down by
C-47 Flying Fortress back in the bomb
compartment. What were your feelings about
finally getting into the War Theater? Well, I was
glad to get there. I was so happy to get out of
Washington, and anywhere would have been
alright. Now, when you got down to Altiers and
North Africa, one of the major questions was if the
French were going to, how the French in North
Africa were going to react. Yeah, and I lost a good
friend, Lieutenant Cross, C-R-E-W. I guess he was
a colonel at that time. He could speak French. I
know at Casablanca was where the French were
concentrated. And I guess he volunteered. He
said, I can speak French. Let me go ashore and talk
to him. He walked ashore, and the French, some
trigger-happy Frenchman shot him and killed him.
He never did get to talk to him. But the French
capitulated right away. Yeah. And did they fight
with you? Of course, De Gaulle went down. Oh, I
don't know. I guess there were some French units in
Eisenhower's, in Eisenhower's down in Africa at
that time. Sure, yeah. I think he may have had some
French units in his command. Did you ever get to see
De Gaulle? No. And, of course, and Eisenhower was
down there at that time, did you? I saw a picture in
there with you and Eisenhower. Yeah, well, I
didn't know him then. Oh, okay. Well, when did you
meet the general? I may have met him in London when
we were laying on the invasion, but I'm not sure.
But those pictures were taken when I was
commanding general at Kelly Field, and he came
down there. He was chief of staff there. This was
after the war. Yeah, 1946. Yeah, and he came down
there to make an inspection for the veteran. Now,
at this time, the German Air Force was still rather
powerful. What were your thoughts in the Air Force
about the Luftwaffe? Well, they used to come over
and bomb. They bombed the harbor in Iran and
dropped a few bombs. One time I was in Algiers and
they were bombing a harbor there. I was in the
hotel.
Traces of bullets go right by my window at these
Jaron planes. I stood that for a little while and I
decided I'd go down to the basement where the air
raid shelter was and I got down there A few
entertainers down there from this country who
were entertaining the troops. They were being
entertained that night. They weren't doing any
entertaining.
There weren't many people down there in the bomb
shelter. What did you think of the quality of the
German Air Force? Well, they were, I didn't know
too much about them because I wasn't in the
fighting business. Right, right. But from what I
gathered talking to my friends, why they're a
pretty hot bunch. Pretty good. They knew their
business. Now at this time, or after this time, you
got to know General Mark Clark, is that right?
Yeah. Could you describe him? He was a pompous,
ultra-conceited ass, but don't quote me. Well,
he's long gone,
so. Oh, he got his start by, I guess he could speak
French. He got in, or maybe Italian. Anyway, he got
He went ashore somewhere and talked to French, I
believe, and he started promoting himself then.
He must have had a real bent for promoting himself
and maybe a good publicity man because next thing
you know he's a general. Where is he? He's way back
here halfway from Moran to Casablanca, sitting
there. hundreds of miles from where the fighting
is, and he's parading. He's formed himself an
armed honor guard, dressed him up in beautiful
uniforms. As far as he was concerned, there wasn't
a war anywhere in Europe, and he was showing the
natives how the West Point parade would be hell if
it was over there. He
called up, he had his chief of staff call me at Iran
there and wanted, I don't know, some sort of fancy
stuff. And I said, I don't have that in stock. Well,
get it for us. So I said, I'm not in the business of
getting stuff for you anyway. I'm in the business
of supplying the Air Force here. keeping
supplies and maintenance for the 12th Air Force.
Well, that didn't set very well with the colonel,
he called me. I guess it didn't set very well with
Mark Clark either. What did he want? I've
forgotten. I didn't even, it was something I
needed when necessary to win the war, and that's
all we were thinking about, was winning the war,
you see. I knew it wasn't necessary. I knew what he
was doing back there. He was just having himself a
ball with this beautiful arm of honor guard that he
formed, and impressing the natives. What a great
man he was.
You can have him. Okay. What about Montgomery? I
never met Montgomery, but from what I've heard, he
was the same type.
But you never came in contact then with the British
in North Africa? He's what? Did you ever come in
contact with the British Army in North Africa?
Some of the British officers, yes. They were all
very fine, very cooperative. For instance, in
Sicily, I had trouble with the quartermaster,
General Eisenhower's quartermaster.
When we went into Sicily, the quartermaster of the
Army was charged with furnishing us food, trucks,
and things like that, hardware.
Never could get any trucks out of the
quartermaster. I unloaded a shipload of trucks
for him one time in Iran on the promise I'd get 10% of
them. And son of a bitch went back on his word and
didn't give me any. And over in Sicily, I went over
from Jaila, I think, at that time. I flew up to
Palermo, where General Patton was in charge. I
talked to his quartermaster about getting food
for the Air Force. We weren't getting any rations.
And so and so said, well, I just have dock space
enough to unload food for the ground troops. The
Air Force will have to get the food somewhere else.
Can you imagine that? Gee whiz. Yeah. So I borrowed
60,000 rations from the British. They were very
cooperative. You mean their own army wouldn't
help you, but the British would? The British
would, yeah. The British helped me out on trucks
when I couldn't get them from our own
quartermaster. The British were very
cooperative with me.
Now in 1943, we invaded Sicily, and you moved from
North Africa to Sicily in a new job commanding the
51st Troop Carrier Wing. Well that was after I'd
been in Sicily for some time. So you moved up to
Sicily then with the 12th Air Force and you were
still in supply and maintenance. Advanced
echelon of the supply and maintenance section of
the 12th Air Force. Did you have any major problems
with supply or maintenance with that invasion?
No. I had plenty of cargo planes I could go back to
Algiers or Tunis and get stuff if I had to have it.
And we got along fine, except for that business of
rations and trucks. We never could get those.
We finally got this ration business straightened
out because General Doolittle said, come on,
George, let's go up and see Patton. So we went up,
and Jimmy talked to Patton for a few minutes, and we
had lunch with him, and got the business of rations
straightened out. General Gay was Patton's chief
of staff, and he had lunch with us just before us.
And we got the business of rations straightened
out, but I never did get trucks. I was sold.
disgusted about the truck situation. I guess I
sounded off too much. General Ridgeway, I think,
was taken over from Eisenhower and said, maybe you
ought to transfer the troop carrier. He thought I
was getting to the point, I guess, where I was going
nuts about this truck situation. So I got out of
supply and maintenance and got into the troop
carrier business. I loved that, being commanding
general of the 51st Troop Carrier Wing. That was a
nice job. Now, exactly what did you do? Well, we
supplied. We had
one squadron of flight nurses. We transported
wounded back to the rear hospitals. We
transported supplies up forward. We flew
supplies over into Yugoslavia to drop to the
partisans there, or land and deliver them, and
bring out anybody in Yugoslavia that wanted to get
back to the American lines.
Did you do any flying yourself or were you just
commanding? I didn't make any of the flights over
the Yugoslavia because that was contrary to the
policy, higher up policy where the general
officer didn't be flying over the lines unless it
was necessary. Right.
That's about all I can think of that we did. We lost
We had one pilot who overshot Barry and overshot
the Catania, Sicily, and took a load of nurses,
flight nurses, over and landed in Yugoslavia out
of gasoline. And we were about three weeks getting
them back. The partisans took care of them and kept
them out of the hands of the Germans. We were in
touch with my radio all the time. We finally got him
back to Catania, Sicily. Threw a big party for him
with the help of some medical alcohol. What did
you think of Patton? I liked him. He was a
swashbuckler type of MacArthur. But when you come
with the fighting way, it didn't make him any
better than Patton when there was some action out
there in the field.
When the war was stalemated, I mean when it was
stagnant and we weren't moving far, I didn't care
for the way Patton paraded around. I'm not the type
to parade myself around, but he liked it. just like
MacArthur was a big show-off every time he got a
chance, but he knew how to deliver when it was
necessary. Now
in 1943, you made general officer. Yeah. Can you
tell me how that came about? Well, I was commanding
about 14-15,000 troops there at Constantine.
forward echelon of the supply and maintenance. I
think I had 15,000 officers and men. With the 12th
Air Force Service Command? Yeah, and General
Spatz came over to see me one time from his
headquarters and talked to me a few minutes and
looked over at what I was doing and then he said to my
Chief of Staff, Colonel Ayling, he said, take a
message to Washington and then he dictated the
message it's imperative that Colonel Beverly be
promoted to Brigadier General because he's
commanding 14,000
personnel in the forward area and should be
promoted at once. I think the same day or the next
day why the hardest came through to make me
Brigadier General. Were you standing right there
when he dictated that letter? Yeah. What did you
feel? Oh boy, was I happy. And so was Colonel Haley,
my Chief of Staff.
Yeah, I knew I deserved it, but then I wasn't going
to stop and wait for it.
In the summer of 1943, you were back in Sicily as the
51st Troop Carrier Wing again. Were you
commanding at them? Yeah. Okay, so you were the CEO
at that time. And you went to Rome. Well, that's
after I transferred to the 15th Air Force. General
Twining had the commanding general of the 15th Air
Force and a very good friend of mine and I decided
I'd like to move on up into Italy and take charge of
his service command for him and he very graciously
agreed to it and sent his
General Manning back down to take my job, so we just
swapped, switched jobs. And after, when I went...
Exactly what did you do then when you switched
jobs? Well, I just took my headquarters personnel
and records and things, put them in a C-47 and flew
up to Bari, Italy to take over the job of commanding
general of the 15th Air Force Service Command.
Now, what did they do? They serviced the 15th Air
Force units with supply and maintenance. I had
23,000
military personnel to about 1,500 officers, I
think, the rest non-commissioned officers and
privates.
We had units spread all over South Italy and at
every tactical unit, every bomber unit or a
fighter unit, why I had a group Supply and
maintenance. Then I had several depots. I went
forward in the Berry area. The number one was up at
Fujiya, that's north of Berry. I had one depot down
south of Berry. I had a depot at Berry. I had three
depots. And...
The service groups, I don't know how many stations
there were, but there must have been at least a
thousand of these service groups and three
depots. My headquarters unit was a very distant
squadron there, about a hundred men. So you had a
tremendous responsibility at that time. When you
went up to Rome, what were the conditions like?
Rome hadn't been touched by bombs.
The Romans were acting like there had never been a
war. They were going around about their business,
their living. Naples was all busted up with bombs,
but Rome hadn't been touched by bombs.
People were friendly to us. We went to see all the
sights, of course. It was just a sightseeing trip,
is all it was.
And during the time when you were in Italy, Jack
Benny came over and gave a show. Well, that was in
Sicily up there. Oh, okay, in Sicily. I was
wondering about that. Yeah, I was in Sicily at that
time, I forget. I think I had the 51st Duke Parade
room at that time. Right, exactly, you're right.
And that's the summer of 43. Now, did you get these
entertainers often? Did they come often? Not very
often, no. Let's see, I had,
I think twice, I had them, No, I guess more than
that. Two or three times. Once in Sicily, in
Catania, Sicily. There was Jack Benny. He was a
bunch. Another bunch I had in Sicily was Joe Lewis
and he was a bunch of fighters. Came over and put on
an exhibition of boxing for us. Then up in Italy,
Marlena Dietrich, I remember she was there, came
in.
I guess before a
man that was president of Eastern Airlines died
not long ago. He came to see us over at Iran.
You know what I'm talking about.
Anyway, he'd just been rescued from a
boat, a rubber boat raft out in the Pacific after
about 21 days. Oh, Rickenbacker. Rickenbacker,
yeah. He came over to Iran and talked to us. He gave
us a pep talk. Of course, we were all happy to see him
alive. But as far as I can remember, that's all the
entertainers we had. Well, did these
entertainers, did they increase morale? Did they
serve their purpose? Yeah, yeah. They did? Yeah.
Man was very happy to see him. Did the average
troop, you know, just the old private, did he get to
see these too? Yeah, yeah, everybody. Mm-hmm.
Of course, the next major event is Operation
Anvil, the invasion of southern France. And I was
wondering, this was in 1944, in the summer of 1944,
about a month after D-Day in Normandy, and I was
wondering what your role was in the invasion of
southern France. I was just, still had the same
role of supply and maintenance for the 15th Air
Force. They were, the 15th Air Force was doing some
bombing along, I believe it was the Rhone River,
along that valley by Leon, down towards Nice. I was
back at Berry.
Were there new problems because of this invasion?
No. Were there new problems because of D-Day? Were
they taking too much supplies away from the
Southern Theater? No. By this time we had enough
supplies? We had enough supplies except the
things that were in short supply.
The P-51s had a tail wheel and the landing areas we
had were so rough the flyers were land and bust a
tailwheel. I never could get enough tailwheels
for the P-51. I never could get enough 56-inch
tires for the bombers who came in on these rough
fields. Maybe land in a sort of a skid, you know, and
there goes your tires, and I never could keep them
supplied with enough 56-inch tires. tail wheels
with B-51s, and wing and belly tanks with all the
fighters because as soon as a fighter plane gets
into a fight, the first thing he does is drop his
wing tanks and his belly tank and get rid of them so
he can maneuver better and
he doesn't run the danger of having them and send
her a bullet to go through one of those tanks and
blow the whole airplane apart. So they were
dropping their tanks and
I was having tanks, U-belly tanks and wingtip
tanks shipped over in halves
so they could get so many more in an airplane, you
know. And then my depot would put the two halves
together and make a tank out of it. That's the way we
had them shipped over. We were short on bomb sites
for part of the time. Another thing we were short of
was fragmentation bombs. The tactical units just
fell in love with those 500 pound frag bombs.
250-pound frag bomb, personnel bombs. Never
could seem to get enough out of the States to keep
them happy. Did you resolve any of these
shortages?
I think we finally got enough belly tanks. How
about wheels? What'd you do about them? They
didn't have the tires? The wheels would stand up
the tires. I meant the tires. How about the tires? I
didn't mean wheels. I meant tires. If you couldn't
get those tires, then what? You just had to ground
them? Yeah, they'd have to stay on the ground so we
could have the tires because we couldn't run the
risk of having them blow out on landing. Sure. Did
you ever get enough tires?
I don't think we did. No, not while I was there. I
came back in October. October of 1944, you were
requested to transfer United States duty. Yeah.
Now after you tried so hard to get to the war, why did
you want to leave it? I'd been over there 26 months.
The war was winding down. It was certainly evident
that the Germans couldn't hold out much longer,
and I wanted to get on home. I'm tired of being over
there.
And your wife, of course, wasn't with you either.
So you became the Inspector General of
Wright-Patterson. Yeah. So you're back at
Wright-Patterson again. Yeah. Did you like that
job? No. As a matter of fact, I hated inspection of
any kind, and that's the reason they made me an
inspector, Some people, you know, just love to
ball you out and shake things down and tear things
apart. Inspectors, they are the sons of bitches
that give inspectors a bad eye.
When I inspected an outfit, I was there to help
them. So I was just the type they wanted for
inspectors. So I got stuck with it, but I didn't
like the work. I don't like to inspect other
people. Well, you didn't do that very long. You
only did that for about six months. It took me six
months to get out of there and get the job I wanted.
That was commanding general of Kelly Air Force
Base in the San Antonio Air Materiel Area. That's
the job I wanted. Why did you want it? I just love San
Antonio. I love Texas. I love to have my own
command. I love to be as far from the throne as
possible, and the throne was up at Wright,
Patterson, and Dayton. Here I was down at San
Antonio with my own little kingdom, about 23,000
civilian employees and 100 officers to help me.
run the place
and I had bases as far as Little Rock and as far as
Tucson. It was all part of my command and I could get
out and get away from San Antonio and away from
Kelly Field and inspect these once a month, you
know. And I just loved that job. Would you say that
that was the high point of your career? Yeah.
Because you were your own boss? Anything after
that was at a climax.
What was your question? Was that because you were
your own boss? Yeah, because I had such a wonderful
command there and everybody seemed to like me and
think I was doing a good job. I had some wonderful
help.
Were there major changes at Kelly? that you made
during the two years you were there? No. I didn't
have to make any major changes. What about as soon
as the war was over, one of the big things in the next
18 months was rapid demobilization of the armed
forces. Did that affect Kelly? Yes. At one time I
had 20,000 airmen and officers in there for
discharge. At one time, 20,000. My chief of
personnel set up an assembly line where we could
turn out 500 a day, turn them back to civilian life.
Certain things they had to have. They had to have a
medical exam, and they had to sign these papers,
and they had to be given a talk about
demobilization or would they join the reserve. It
was quite a job. to get these boys out, but we were
turning out $500 a day there at the last. I also was
making discharge buttons to give each one. We made
$3.5 million of those things at the depot there,
$35,000 a day. So they all made those little
honorable discharge buttons? Yeah, and the thing
you put on it. We turned out 35,000 a day. That's the
reason. I know that's the reason Eisenhower came
down there to inspect me, because he heard about
it, and we were turning out a different button from
what the Army was getting. The Army was getting
something they called a ruptured duck. It was put
in a lapel, and the Air Force decided that we'd have
a separate this charge button and told me to make
three and a half million of them, and that's what we
were doing. I think you are getting thirsty by now.
No, no. What can I give you some? Not a thing,
thanks. I could use some ice water. That's what I
thought. How about you? Well, you might give me
some glass ice water, yeah. All right. I'll do
that. Or lemonade, either one. Now, when
Eisenhower came down to inspect, Yeah. What were
your thoughts? Tell me about his trip down there.
Well, I didn't know what he'd come down there for,
but I had a suspicion that he was looking for
something. I showed him all through the shops, you
know, and we had everything on a similar line
basis, just like a factory in Detroit. And finally
we came to this place where they were making these
buttons, and he says, what's this? I said, these
are discharge buttons for the airmen and the
officers of the Air Force. Stop it. I said, yes,
sir. And that evening after he left, I got on the
phone. I called Wright Patterson, my boss up
there. I forget who it was at that time. I told him
that I had been there and made an inspection. told
me to stop making these discharge buttons. The
next day I got a call from Wright Patterson that
said, go right ahead and make them.
So why didn't Eisenhower want you to make them?
Well, he thought, yeah here's this Air Force
trying to upstage the Army boys and have a
different discharge button and he probably never
asked him for his permission. Probably never
asked him for permission to do it, and maybe he's
the type that likes to have everybody ask him
before they do anything. Well, what did you think
of Eisenhower just in the brief day that you spent
with him? I don't think he was the best general we
had during the war, but... Why not? I
guess I didn't know him well enough, maybe.
How efficient was he as far as an inspector? Well,
yeah, he just, he probably didn't know what he was
looking at. I
call this service. How much we owe you? Why don't
you take your shoes off? No, I'm fine. I'm just
fine. Are you comfortable? Yes, I am very
comfortable. You put this on the bill. Just put
this on my tab. So one
of
the major operations at Kelly was discharging
troops. Anything else? New aircrafts?
over a billion dollars worth of property there and
a lot of it became surplus when the war was over. As a
matter of fact, six months before the war is where
they started shoving in war weary airplanes to me
and I had to set up places out in Peyote, Texas and
then Hobbs, New Mexico and Tucson, Arizona where
we put some of these in mothballs and set up a detail
at Walnut Grove, Arkansas, where we were junking a
lot of B-24s. Were there any problems as far as that
was concerned, or was it pretty smooth? Any what?
Was there any problems? No problem. No, with the
help I had, I just didn't have any problems You had
superior workers? I had superior men, I had
superior officers, and I had spent most of my
nervous and physical energy in finding these
officers to help me because I'm naturally lazy and
I don't like to, I like to have others do it for me.
One officer I was particularly fond of became a
major general A couple years after I, about a year
after I retired. That was a quality officer. I got
another one, Brigadier General in the reserve.
How about new types of airplanes at this time? Had
the jets started to come out? No. Was there any
research and development at Kellington? Oh yeah.
research and development going on all the time,
but the jets were coming along, but we didn't have
any, I don't think we had any jets in service until
about 1950-51 when the P-80, I believe, was... I
bet you, or how are the, now with the war over and the
troops coming back and being discharged, how did
the people in San Antonio treat them? They were all
jubilant. They were happy.
I made some talks over the radio about WAI and the
main radio station there promoting a separate air
force equal to the Army and Navy and I made a journey
over to Bryan, Texas to debate with the Navy file
about the separate Air Force. The Navy apparently
were fighting it but uh and then uh when the Amateur
Athletic Union had their yearly convention in San
Antonio they asked me to make a principal address
and uh I talked to them about the separate Air Force
and outlined what We were trying to do what our
ideas were on that. What were your ideas? Our ideas
were we would have a separate Air Force, equal rank
with the Army and with the Navy, and the whole thing
would be headed by the General Staff, Chief of
Staff, which is the present setup. That's what we
were trying for. And why were you in favor of that?
Well, it's a logical result of what we proved we
could do during the Second World War. We could
do it so much better if we had our own commanders and
didn't have to go through the Army on it. And the
separate Air Force, why we'd have nothing but Air
Force officers over us. outside of the Chief of the
General Staff.
We didn't figure on that much. We wanted our own
separate command. Was there a lot of resistance
from the Army and Navy? The Navy resisted it. The
Army, I don't think resisted it. I don't recall
that they did. Maybe they were glad to get rid of us.
Did you feel that you were jeopardizing your
career by going out on the line and giving these
talks on radio? No, I never considered my career,
jeopardizing my career in anything I did. I was
just as independent as a hog on ice, and I never,
never
thought of promoting myself by being careful of
what I said I did.
Now, during your career, you met a lot of very
interesting people, and some of them visited you
when you were down in Kelly, like Lord Teder, who
was Chief of the Royal Air Force. Well, I think he
was Chief there. Maybe he was second in command or
something. He was pretty high up in the Royal Air
Force. What were your impressions of him? Oh, he
was just a nice fella and had a nice wife. He was just
on a junket. And this is when, 1946? I believe it is.
And during 1946, the British were attempting to
get the United States to cooperate as much as
possible in the military with them, and of course
these are, NATO doesn't come around until 1949,
but the British are already eager for a NATO as As
early as 1946. Did Tedder have anything to say
about Anglo-American military cooperation? No,
Tedder didn't have anything to say about it. He
just made a friendly visit. He knew that I had the
largest Air Force depot in the world and he just
wanted to see it. How about General Wainwright? He
was a grand old man. He and my cousin, Major General
Fletcher Sharp, were both taken prisoners by the
Japs and mistreated. The whole time they were
prisoners. Came back physical wrecks. My cousin
died within a year. I think Wainwright died within
a year, maybe a couple of years. In the meantime,
his wife had become an alcoholic.